ces dernières années, alors que les droits des homosexuels sont devenus de plus en plus acceptés et respectés, le fardeau des atrocités a de plus en plus ciblé les femmes transgenres et les travestis masculins

_Genocide: A Comprehensive Introduction_
Adam Jones


■ GENOCIDE AND VIOLENCE AGAINST HOMOSEXUALS The phenomenon of discrimination and violence against homosexuals – especially gay men – is still pervasive. It is linked to the collective policing of gender, in which those who opt out of heterosexuality are seen as “asocial” threats. In the Nazi case (Box 6a), gay males were viewed as violating eugenic tenets. While the mentally handicapped were “useless eaters,” gays were condemned as superfluous for their “failure” to help replenish the Volk. In this book’s first edition, I wrote that “perhaps only in the Nazi case has violence against homosexual men attained a scale and systematic character that might be considered genocidal.” That judgment may still hold, but it has been challenged by the murderous campaign against homosexuals launched in post-2003 Iraq. In 2005, the leading Shia cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, issued a fatwa (religious injunction) calling for gay men and lesbians to be killed “in the worst, most severe way” (he lifted the decree against gay men the following year, but the fatwa against lesbians remained in place).34What had been one of the Arab world’s livelier and more open gay scenes was replaced by a campaign of religious-fundamentalist terror that had killed an estimated four hundred people for alleged homosexual acts by 2007.35 In that year, the United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI) reported that “Islamic groups and militias have been known to be particularly hostile towards homosexuals, frequently and openly engaging in violent campaigns against them. There have been a number of assassinations of homosexuals.” At “religious courts GENDERING GENOCIDE 474 . . . presided over by young, inexperienced clerics,” homosexuals were given summary trials and sentences ranging “from 40 lashes to the death penalty.”36 In 2009, the UK Observer profiled a would-be judge and executioner, a young man who passed his days “cruising” Web sites to uncover hidden gays. The Net, he said, “is the easiest way to find those people who are destroying Islam and who want to dirty the reputation we took centuries to build up.” “Animals deserve more pity than the dirty people who practise such sexual depraved acts,” declared another member of the group. “We make sure they know why they are being held and give them the chance to ask God’s forgiveness before they are killed.”37 Those gays that had not fled the terror lived in fear, as related to The New York Times by “Mohammed [and] his friends”: They described an underground existence, eked out behind drawn curtains in a dingy safe house in southwestern Baghdad. Five people share the apartment – four gay men and one woman, who says she is bisexual. They have moved six times in the last three years, just ahead, they say, of neighborhood raids by Shiite and Sunni death squads. Even seemingly benign neighborhood gossip can scare them enough to move. “We seem suspicious because we look like a cell of terrorists,” said Mohammed, nervously fingering the lapel of his shirt. “But we can’t tell people what we really are. A cell, yes, but of gays.”38 GENDERING GENOCIDE 475 Figure 13.5 Protestors holding “God Hates Fag” and other signs demonstrate in San Francisco in June 2008. Homosexual men and women have been targeted for persecution and murder since the earliest days of many major societies and religious traditions. Today, in countries ranging from Colombia to Iraq to Uganda, their gender dissidence may incur the death penalty, whether imposed by state decree (as recently proposed in Uganda), religious fatwa (as in Iraq), or death-squads and vigilantes (as in Colombia and several other Latin American countries). (San Francisco is of course one of the global centers of gay and lesbian culture. The poster of this image, JP Puerta, noted, “It’s amazing how in this country people with extremely different views can mix together in protests and mobs without anybody getting killed or seriously injured.”)39 Source: JP Puerta/Wikimedia Commons. Meanwhile, in Uganda as of early 2010, a bill was before parliament to formally enshrine the death penalty for homosexual relations in the country’s legal code.40 The measure was emblematic of a broader African trend toward anathematizing and criminalizing gays – again spurred by religious fundamentalism, this time predominantly of a Christian stripe.41 In Latin American countries still reeling from the death-squad violence of the 1970s through the 1990s, gay males – especially male prostitutes, the transgendered, and drag queens – remain at extraordinary risk of vigilante-style killings in some Latin American societies. In Colombia between 1986 and 1990, “328 gay men were murdered in the city of Medellín alone.”42 Globally, Amnesty International reports sampled by Stefanie Rixecker demonstrate that a wide range of violence is “directed at queer individuals based upon their actual or perceived sexual preference”: The types of abuses range from complaints of ill treatment while in police custody to rape, sexual abuse, sexual realignment surgery, extrajudicial executions and disappearances, and state-sanctioned execution. The murder of gays and lesbians due to their sexuality, or to associated behaviors and illnesses (e.g. HIV and AIDS), not only means that the individuals are targeted, but also – due to the relatively small numbers of gays and lesbians – becomes tantamount to genocide and now, more specifically, gendercide. “Although a full complement of the gay community is not murdered in such acts,” Rixecker wrote, “the relatively small statistical populations of gays and lesbians overall means that the annual toll of queer identities can be regarded as a genocidal act.